docs/contracts/v3/guides/providing-liquidity/mint-a-new-position.md, before:

---
id: mint-a-position
title: Mint a New Position
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Input Parameters

To mint a new position, we use the `nonFungiblePositionManager` and call `mint`.

For the sake of this example, we're hard coding the token amounts to be minted. In production, this would be a user-configurable function argument.

```solidity
    /// @notice Calls the mint function defined in periphery, mints the same amount of each token. For this example we are providing 1000 DAI and 1000 USDC in liquidity
    /// @return tokenId The id of the newly minted ERC721
    /// @return liquidity The amount of liquidity for the position
    /// @return amount0 The amount of token0
    /// @return amount1 The amount of token1
    function mintNewPosition()
        external
        returns (
            uint256 tokenId,
            uint128 liquidity,
            uint256 amount0,
            uint256 amount1
        )
    {
        // For this example, we will provide equal amounts of liquidity in both assets.
        // Providing liquidity in both assets means liquidity will be earning fees and is considered in-range.
        uint256 amount0ToMint = 1000;
        uint256 amount1ToMint = 1000;
```

## Calling Mint

Here we approve the `nonfungiblePositionManager` to use the contracts' tokens, then populate the `MintParams` struct and assign it to a local variable `params` that will be passed to the `nonfungiblePositionManager` when we call `mint`.

- By using `TickMath.MIN_TICK` and `TickMath.MAX_TICK`, we are providing liquidity across the whole range of the pool. In production you may want to specify a more concentrated position.

- We set `amount0Min` and `amount1Min` to zero for the example - but this would be a vulnerability in production. A function calling `mint` with no slippage protection would be vulnerable to a frontrunning attack designed to execute the `mint` call at an inaccurate price.
- For a more secure practice the developer would need to implement a slippage estimation process.

- Note that this function will not initialize a pool where one does not yet exist.

```solidity
        // Approve the position manager
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount0ToMint);
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount1ToMint);

        INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams memory params =
            INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams({
                token0: DAI,
                token1: USDC,
                fee: poolFee,
                tickLower: TickMath.MIN_TICK,
                tickUpper: TickMath.MAX_TICK,
                amount0Desired: amount0ToMint,
                amount1Desired: amount1ToMint,
                amount0Min: 0,
                amount1Min: 0,
                recipient: address(this),
                deadline: block.timestamp
            });

        // Note that the pool defined by DAI/USDC and fee tier 0.3% must already be created and initialized in order to mint
        (tokenId, liquidity, amount0, amount1) = nonfungiblePositionManager.mint(params);

```

## Updating The Deposit Mapping And Refunding The Calling Address

Now we can call the internal function we previously wrote in [Setting Up Your Contract](./setting-up-your-contract.md). After that, we can take any liquidity leftover from minting and refund it to `msg.sender`.

```solidity
        // Create a deposit
        _createDeposit(msg.sender, tokenId);

        // Remove allowance and refund in both assets.
        if (amount0 < amount0ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund0 = amount0ToMint - amount0;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(DAI, msg.sender, refund0);
        }

        if (amount1 < amount1ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund1 = amount1ToMint - amount1;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(USDC, msg.sender, refund1);
        }
    }
```

## The Full Example

```solidity
    /// @notice Calls the mint function defined in periphery, mints the same amount of each token. For this example we are providing 1000 DAI and 1000 USDC in liquidity
    /// @return tokenId The id of the newly minted ERC721
    /// @return liquidity The amount of liquidity for the position
    /// @return amount0 The amount of token0
    /// @return amount1 The amount of token1
    function mintNewPosition()
        external
        returns (
            uint256 tokenId,
            uint128 liquidity,
            uint256 amount0,
            uint256 amount1
        )
    {
        // For this example, we will provide equal amounts of liquidity in both assets.
        // Providing liquidity in both assets means liquidity will be earning fees and is considered in-range.
        uint256 amount0ToMint = 1000;
        uint256 amount1ToMint = 1000;

        // Approve the position manager
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount0ToMint);
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount1ToMint);

        INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams memory params =
            INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams({
                token0: DAI,
                token1: USDC,
                fee: poolFee,
                tickLower: TickMath.MIN_TICK,
                tickUpper: TickMath.MAX_TICK,
                amount0Desired: amount0ToMint,
                amount1Desired: amount1ToMint,
                amount0Min: 0,
                amount1Min: 0,
                recipient: address(this),
                deadline: block.timestamp
            });

        // Note that the pool defined by DAI/USDC and fee tier 0.3% must already be created and initialized in order to mint
        (tokenId, liquidity, amount0, amount1) = nonfungiblePositionManager.mint(params);

        // Create a deposit
        _createDeposit(msg.sender, tokenId);

        // Remove allowance and refund in both assets.
        if (amount0 < amount0ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund0 = amount0ToMint - amount0;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(DAI, msg.sender, refund0);
        }

        if (amount1 < amount1ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund1 = amount1ToMint - amount1;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(USDC, msg.sender, refund1);
        }
    }
```

Commit message:

Add information for tickSpacing upon minting
TickMath.MIN/MAX_TICK will return actual full range only for the 0.01% pool. This adds some info to show that the upper and lower ticks must be divisible by the tick spacing

docs/contracts/v3/guides/providing-liquidity/mint-a-new-position.md, after:

---
id: mint-a-position
title: Mint a New Position
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Input Parameters

To mint a new position, we use the `nonFungiblePositionManager` and call `mint`.

For the sake of this example, we're hard coding the token amounts to be minted. In production, this would be a user-configurable function argument.

```solidity
    /// @notice Calls the mint function defined in periphery, mints the same amount of each token. For this example we are providing 1000 DAI and 1000 USDC in liquidity
    /// @return tokenId The id of the newly minted ERC721
    /// @return liquidity The amount of liquidity for the position
    /// @return amount0 The amount of token0
    /// @return amount1 The amount of token1
    function mintNewPosition()
        external
        returns (
            uint256 tokenId,
            uint128 liquidity,
            uint256 amount0,
            uint256 amount1
        )
    {
        // For this example, we will provide equal amounts of liquidity in both assets.
        // Providing liquidity in both assets means liquidity will be earning fees and is considered in-range.
        uint256 amount0ToMint = 1000;
        uint256 amount1ToMint = 1000;
```

## Calling Mint

Here we approve the `nonfungiblePositionManager` to use the contracts' tokens, then populate the `MintParams` struct and assign it to a local variable `params` that will be passed to the `nonfungiblePositionManager` when we call `mint`.

- By using `TickMath.MIN_TICK` and `TickMath.MAX_TICK`, we are providing liquidity across the whole range of the pool. These will give a min tick of `-887272` and a max tick of `887272`. This works as is with the 0.01% pool, However other pools will need to use the correct tick spacing for the pool you are working with. Tick spacing for the pools are `0.01% == 1 tick spacing, 0.3% == 60 tick spacing, 0.05 == 10 tick spacing, 1% == 200 tick spacing`. So when setting up a pool with a different tick spacing, you will need to use a tick that is evenly divisible by the spacing. You can get the tick spacing by casting the contract of the pool address, and calling `tickSpacing()`. In production you may want to specify a more concentrated position, where you would take x of these tick spaces around the current active tick range.

```solidity
    tickLower: (TickMath.MIN_TICK / tickSpacing) * tickSpacing,
    tickUpper: (TickMath.MAX_TICK / tickSpacing) * tickSpacing,
```

- We set `amount0Min` and `amount1Min` to zero for the example - but this would be a vulnerability in production. A function calling `mint` with no slippage protection would be vulnerable to a frontrunning attack designed to execute the `mint` call at an inaccurate price.
- For a more secure practice the developer would need to implement a slippage estimation process.

- Note that this function will not initialize a pool where one does not yet exist.

```solidity
        // Approve the position manager
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount0ToMint);
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount1ToMint);

        INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams memory params =
            INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams({
                token0: DAI,
                token1: USDC,
                fee: poolFee,
                tickLower: TickMath.MIN_TICK,
                tickUpper: TickMath.MAX_TICK,
                amount0Desired: amount0ToMint,
                amount1Desired: amount1ToMint,
                amount0Min: 0,
                amount1Min: 0,
                recipient: address(this),
                deadline: block.timestamp
            });

        // Note that the pool defined by DAI/USDC and fee tier 0.3% must already be created and initialized in order to mint
        (tokenId, liquidity, amount0, amount1) = nonfungiblePositionManager.mint(params);

```

## Updating The Deposit Mapping And Refunding The Calling Address

Now we can call the internal function we previously wrote in [Setting Up Your Contract](./setting-up-your-contract.md). After that, we can take any liquidity leftover from minting and refund it to `msg.sender`.

```solidity
        // Create a deposit
        _createDeposit(msg.sender, tokenId);

        // Remove allowance and refund in both assets.
        if (amount0 < amount0ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund0 = amount0ToMint - amount0;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(DAI, msg.sender, refund0);
        }

        if (amount1 < amount1ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund1 = amount1ToMint - amount1;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(USDC, msg.sender, refund1);
        }
    }
```

## The Full Example

```solidity
    /// @notice Calls the mint function defined in periphery, mints the same amount of each token. For this example we are providing 1000 DAI and 1000 USDC in liquidity
    /// @return tokenId The id of the newly minted ERC721
    /// @return liquidity The amount of liquidity for the position
    /// @return amount0 The amount of token0
    /// @return amount1 The amount of token1
    function mintNewPosition()
        external
        returns (
            uint256 tokenId,
            uint128 liquidity,
            uint256 amount0,
            uint256 amount1
        )
    {
        // For this example, we will provide equal amounts of liquidity in both assets.
        // Providing liquidity in both assets means liquidity will be earning fees and is considered in-range.
        uint256 amount0ToMint = 1000;
        uint256 amount1ToMint = 1000;

        // Approve the position manager
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount0ToMint);
        TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), amount1ToMint);

        INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams memory params =
            INonfungiblePositionManager.MintParams({
                token0: DAI,
                token1: USDC,
                fee: poolFee,
                tickLower: TickMath.MIN_TICK,
                tickUpper: TickMath.MAX_TICK,
                amount0Desired: amount0ToMint,
                amount1Desired: amount1ToMint,
                amount0Min: 0,
                amount1Min: 0,
                recipient: address(this),
                deadline: block.timestamp
            });

        // Note that the pool defined by DAI/USDC and fee tier 0.3% must already be created and initialized in order to mint
        (tokenId, liquidity, amount0, amount1) = nonfungiblePositionManager.mint(params);

        // Create a deposit
        _createDeposit(msg.sender, tokenId);

        // Remove allowance and refund in both assets.
        if (amount0 < amount0ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(DAI, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund0 = amount0ToMint - amount0;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(DAI, msg.sender, refund0);
        }

        if (amount1 < amount1ToMint) {
            TransferHelper.safeApprove(USDC, address(nonfungiblePositionManager), 0);
            uint256 refund1 = amount1ToMint - amount1;
            TransferHelper.safeTransfer(USDC, msg.sender, refund1);
        }
    }
```
