docs/sdk/v3/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---

# The Uniswap V3 SDK

Welcome to the V3 Uniswap Protocol SDK. To begin, we recommend looking at the [**Guides**](./guides/01-quick-start.md) and for deeper reference see the [**V3 SDK Github**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-sdk) repo.

These docs will help you better understand how to use the SDK and integrate it into your application. 

# Alpha software

The latest version of the SDK is used in production in the Uniswap Interface,
but it is considered Alpha software and may contain bugs or change significantly between patch versions.
If you have questions about how to use the SDK, please reach out in the `#dev-chat` channel of our Discord.
Pull requests are welcome!

# Resources

- [**V3 SDK Github Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-sdk)
- [**SDK Core Github Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/sdk-core)
- [**SDK NPM Package**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v3-sdk)

[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/workflows/Unit%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Unit+Tests%22)
[![Lint](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/workflows/Lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3ALint)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uniswap/v3-sdk/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v3-sdk/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@uniswap/v3-sdk/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@uniswap/v3-sdk@latest)

Commit message:

fix: core-sdk Technical Reference (#506)

docs/sdk/v3/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---

# The Uniswap V3 SDK

> **Welcome to the V3 Uniswap SDK!**

The Uniswap V3 SDK provides abstractions to assist you with interacting with the Uniswap V3 smart contracts in a Typescript/Javascript environment. It makes uses of the [**Core SDK**](../core//overview.md) to gain access to abstractions that are common amongst the Uniswap SDKs.

These docs will help you better understand how to use the SDK and integrate it into your application.

To begin, we recommend looking at the [**Guides**](./guides/01-quick-start) and for deeper reference see the [**Technical Reference**](./reference/overview).


# Resources

- [**V3 SDK Github Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v3-sdk)
- [**Core SDK Github Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/sdk-core)
- [**V3 SDK NPM Package**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v3-sdk)

[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/workflows/Unit%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Unit+Tests%22)
[![Lint](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/workflows/Lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3ALint)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uniswap/v3-sdk/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v3-sdk/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@uniswap/v3-sdk/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@uniswap/v3-sdk@latest)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join%20chat-blue.svg)](https://discord.com/channels/597638925346930701/607978109089611786)
