docs/sdk/web3-react/guides/03-switch-chains.md, before:

---
id: switch-chains
title: Switching Chains
---     
## Introduction

This guide will cover how to prompt a wallet that has connected to our dApp to switch chains using `web3-react`. It is based on the [web3-react example](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples), found in the Uniswap code examples [repository](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples). To run this example, check out the examples's [README](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples) and follow the setup instructions.


:::info
For help on setting up web3-react and interacting with an `InjectedConnector`, please visit our [connecting to wallets](./01-connect-wallet.md) page!
:::


The input parameters to this guide are the chains that we want our app to be able to connect to and their RPC URLs.

At the end of the guide, we should be able to switch chains for a connected wallet.

For this guide, the following `web3-react` packages are used:

- [`@web3-react/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@web3-react/core)

The core code of this guide can be found in [Connections](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/feat/web3-react/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts).

## Switching Chains

Having setup our application to use `web3-react` and having built out the ability to connect and disconnect wallets, we can now move on to switching chains.

Our function requires 2 parameters, which are the chainId we want to switch to, as well as the current connection type:

```typescript reference title="Defining the function" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L64
```

Given the `ConnectionType`, we can retrieve the actual connector:

```typescript reference title="Retrieving the connector" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L69
```

Then, depending on the `ConnectionType`, there are different ways to switch chains. For the `Network` or `WalletConnect` we we simply call `web3-react`'s `activate` function with the supplied chainId:

```typescript reference title="Switching chains for Network and WalletConnect" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L71
```

On the other hand, the rest of the connectors require us to build an object of type `AddEthereumChainParameter` and pass it to the `web3-react`'s `activate` function:

```typescript reference title="Switching chains the other Connectors" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L77-L84
```

The argument supplied in the second case have been already defined in our constants file:
    
```typescript reference title="Defining the chain parameters" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/constants.ts#L27-L40
```

Commit message:

add cute next steps note

docs/sdk/web3-react/guides/03-switch-chains.md, after:

---
id: switch-chains
title: Switching Chains
---     
## Introduction

This guide will cover how to prompt a wallet that has connected to our dApp to switch chains using `web3-react`. It is based on the [web3-react example](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples), found in the Uniswap code examples [repository](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples). To run this example, check out the examples's [README](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples) and follow the setup instructions.


:::info
For help on setting up web3-react and interacting with a MetaMask wallet, please visit our [connecting to wallets](./01-connect-wallet.md) page!
:::


The input parameters to this guide are the chains that we want our dApp to be able to connect to and their RPC URLs.

At the end of the guide, we should be able to switch chains for a connected wallet.

For this guide, the following `web3-react` packages are used:

- [`@web3-react/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@web3-react/core)

The core code of this guide can be found in [Connections](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/feat/web3-react/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts).

## Switching Chains

Having setup our application to use `web3-react` and having built out the ability to connect and disconnect wallets, we can now move on to switching chains.

Our function requires 2 parameters, which are the chainId we want to switch to, as well as the current connection type:

```typescript reference title="Defining the function" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L64
```

Given the `ConnectionType`, we can retrieve the actual connector:

```typescript reference title="Retrieving the connector" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L69
```

Then, depending on the `ConnectionType`, there are different ways to switch chains. For the `Network` or `WalletConnect` cases, we simply call `web3-react`'s `activate` function with the supplied chainId:

```typescript reference title="Switching chains for Network and WalletConnect" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L71-L74
```

On the other hand, the rest of the connectors require us to build an object of type `AddEthereumChainParameter` and pass it to the `web3-react`'s `activate` function:

```typescript reference title="Switching chains the other Connectors" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/connections.ts#L77-L84
```

The argument supplied in the second case have been already defined in our constants file:
    
```typescript reference title="Defining the chain parameters" referenceLinkText="View on Github" customStyling
https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/blob/8c0e36ca8d2ba4718af944094191f39da62a9c5c/web3-react/src/libs/constants.ts#L27-L40
```

## Next steps

You know now how to support `web3-react`'s most common use cases! Stay tuned for follow up guides.
