docs/contracts/v3/guides/flash-integrations/Inheritance-constructors.md, before:

---
id: inheritance-constructors
title: Getting Started
sidebar_position: 1
---

In this guide, we will write a smart contract that calls `flash` on a V3 pool and swaps the full amount withdrawn of `token0` and `token1` in the corresponding pools with the same token pair - but different fee tiers. After the swap, the contract will pay back the first pool and transfer profits to the original calling address.

## Flash Transactions Overview

Flash transactions are an approach to transferring tokens on Ethereum that transfer token balances _before_ the necessary conditions are met for those balances to be transferred. In the context of a swap, this would mean the output is sent from the swap before the input is received.

Uniswap V3 introduces a new function, `flash`, within the Pool contract. `Flash` withdraws a specified amount of both `token0` and `token1` to the `recipient` address. The withdrawn amount, plus the swap fees, will be due to the pool at the end of the transaction. `flash` includes a fourth parameter, `data`, which allows the caller to abi.encode any necessary data to be passed through the function and decoded later.

```solidity
    function flash(
        address recipient,
        uint256 amount0,
        uint256 amount1,
        bytes calldata data
    ) external override lock noDelegateCall {
```

## The Flash Callback

`flash` will withdraw the tokens, but how are they paid back? To understand this, we must look inside the flash function code. midway through the [**flash**](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-core/blob/main/contracts/UniswapV3Pool.sol#L791) function, we see this:

```solidity
IUniswapV3FlashCallback(msg.sender).uniswapV3FlashCallback(fee0, fee1, data);
```

This step calls the `FlashCallback` function on `msg.sender` - which passes the fee data needed to calculate the balances due to the pool, as well as any data encoded into the `data` parameter.

In V3 there are three separate callback functions, `uniswapV3SwapCallback`, `uniswapV3MintCallback`, and `uniswapV3FlashCallback`, each available to be overridden with custom logic. To write our arbitrage contract, we'll be calling `flash` and overriding the `uniswapV3FlashCallback` with the steps needed to finish executing our transaction.

## Inheriting The V3 Contracts

Inherit `IUniswapV3FlashCallback` and `PeripheryPayments`, as we will use each in our program. Note these two inherited contracts already extend many other contracts that we will be using, such as [LowGasSafeMath](../../reference/core/libraries/LowGasSafeMath.md) which we [attach](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.7.6/contracts.html?highlight=using#using-for), to types `uint256` and `int256`.

```solidity
contract PairFlash is IUniswapV3FlashCallback, PeripheryPayments {
    using LowGasSafeMath for uint256;
    using LowGasSafeMath for int256;
```

Declare an immutable public variable `swapRouter` of type `ISwapRouter`:

```solidity
    ISwapRouter public Immutable swapRouter;
```

Declare the constructor here, which is executed once when the contract is deployed. Our constructor hardcodes the address of the V3 router, factory, and the address of weth9, the [ERC-20 wrapper](https://weth.io/) for ether.

```solidity
    constructor(
        ISwapRouter _swapRouter,
        address _factory,
        address _WETH9
    ) PeripheryImmutableState(_factory, _WETH9) {
        swapRouter = _swapRouter;
    }
```

The full import section and contract declaration:

```solidity
pragma solidity =0.7.6;
pragma abicoder v2;

import '@uniswap/v3-core/contracts/interfaces/callback/IUniswapV3FlashCallback.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-core/contracts/libraries/LowGasSafeMath.sol';

import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/base/PeripheryPayments.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/base/PeripheryImmutableState.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/PoolAddress.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/CallbackValidation.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/TransferHelper.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/interfaces/ISwapRouter.sol';



contract PairFlash is IUniswapV3FlashCallback, PeripheryPayments {
    using LowGasSafeMath for uint256;
    using LowGasSafeMath for int256;

    ISwapRouter public immutable swapRouter;

    constructor(
        ISwapRouter _swapRouter,
        address _factory,
        address _WETH9
    ) PeripheryImmutableState(_factory, _WETH9) {
        swapRouter = _swapRouter;
    }
```

Commit message:

Update the 'Getting Started' section
The aim of the proposed change is to clarify that the ability to make a profit comes from the difference in the price ratio between `token0` and `token1` in the different pools, not necessarily from the different fee tiers. While the fee tiers can affect the overall cost of the trade, the primary factor that allows for profitable swaps is the difference in price ratios.

docs/contracts/v3/guides/flash-integrations/Inheritance-constructors.md, after:

---
id: inheritance-constructors
title: Getting Started
sidebar_position: 1
---

In this guide, we will write a smart contract that calls `flash` on a V3 pool and swaps the full amount withdrawn of `token0` and `token1` in the corresponding pools with the same token pair - but different fee tiers. After the swap, the contract will pay back the first pool and transfer profits to the original calling address.

The ability to make a profit comes from the difference in the price ratio between `token0` and `token1` in the different pools, not necessarily from the different fee tiers. While the fee tiers can affect the overall cost of the trade, the primary factor that allows for profitable swaps is the difference in price ratios.

The contract is designed to withdraw tokens from a V3 pool, swap them in a different V3 pool with the same token pair but different price ratio and fee tier, and then pay back the original pool and transfer any profits to the calling address. By swapping the tokens in a different pool with a different price ratio, the contract is able to take advantage of the price difference and make a profit.

The fees charged by the pools have an impact on the profitability of the trade. Lower fees can make it easier to profit from the trade because the price difference needed to cover the fees and still make a profit is smaller. However, other factors such as the amount of liquidity available in the pools, slippage, gas fees, and market volatility also play a role in determining the profitability of the trade. So while lower fees can make it easier to profit from a trade, it's not the only factor to consider.

This code is intended to be just an example. For this reason, readers should do their own research to avoid losing their funds.

## Flash Transactions Overview

Flash transactions are an approach to transferring tokens on Ethereum that transfer token balances _before_ the necessary conditions are met for those balances to be transferred. In the context of a swap, this would mean the output is sent from the swap before the input is received.

Uniswap V3 introduces a new function, `flash`, within the Pool contract. `Flash` withdraws a specified amount of both `token0` and `token1` to the `recipient` address. The withdrawn amount, plus the swap fees, will be due to the pool at the end of the transaction. `flash` includes a fourth parameter, `data`, which allows the caller to abi.encode any necessary data to be passed through the function and decoded later.

```solidity
    function flash(
        address recipient,
        uint256 amount0,
        uint256 amount1,
        bytes calldata data
    ) external override lock noDelegateCall {
```

## The Flash Callback

`flash` will withdraw the tokens, but how are they paid back? To understand this, we must look inside the flash function code. midway through the [**flash**](https://github.com/Uniswap/uniswap-v3-core/blob/main/contracts/UniswapV3Pool.sol#L791) function, we see this:

```solidity
IUniswapV3FlashCallback(msg.sender).uniswapV3FlashCallback(fee0, fee1, data);
```

This step calls the `FlashCallback` function on `msg.sender` - which passes the fee data needed to calculate the balances due to the pool, as well as any data encoded into the `data` parameter.

In V3 there are three separate callback functions, `uniswapV3SwapCallback`, `uniswapV3MintCallback`, and `uniswapV3FlashCallback`, each available to be overridden with custom logic. To write our arbitrage contract, we'll be calling `flash` and overriding the `uniswapV3FlashCallback` with the steps needed to finish executing our transaction.

## Inheriting The V3 Contracts

Inherit `IUniswapV3FlashCallback` and `PeripheryPayments`, as we will use each in our program. Note these two inherited contracts already extend many other contracts that we will be using, such as [LowGasSafeMath](../../reference/core/libraries/LowGasSafeMath.md) which we [attach](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.7.6/contracts.html?highlight=using#using-for), to types `uint256` and `int256`.

```solidity
contract PairFlash is IUniswapV3FlashCallback, PeripheryPayments {
    using LowGasSafeMath for uint256;
    using LowGasSafeMath for int256;
```

Declare an immutable public variable `swapRouter` of type `ISwapRouter`:

```solidity
    ISwapRouter public Immutable swapRouter;
```

Declare the constructor here, which is executed once when the contract is deployed. Our constructor hardcodes the address of the V3 router, factory, and the address of weth9, the [ERC-20 wrapper](https://weth.io/) for ether.

```solidity
    constructor(
        ISwapRouter _swapRouter,
        address _factory,
        address _WETH9
    ) PeripheryImmutableState(_factory, _WETH9) {
        swapRouter = _swapRouter;
    }
```

The full import section and contract declaration:

```solidity
pragma solidity =0.7.6;
pragma abicoder v2;

import '@uniswap/v3-core/contracts/interfaces/callback/IUniswapV3FlashCallback.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-core/contracts/libraries/LowGasSafeMath.sol';

import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/base/PeripheryPayments.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/base/PeripheryImmutableState.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/PoolAddress.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/CallbackValidation.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/libraries/TransferHelper.sol';
import '@uniswap/v3-periphery/contracts/interfaces/ISwapRouter.sol';



contract PairFlash is IUniswapV3FlashCallback, PeripheryPayments {
    using LowGasSafeMath for uint256;
    using LowGasSafeMath for int256;

    ISwapRouter public immutable swapRouter;

    constructor(
        ISwapRouter _swapRouter,
        address _factory,
        address _WETH9
    ) PeripheryImmutableState(_factory, _WETH9) {
        swapRouter = _swapRouter;
    }
```
