SDK_versioned_docs/version-3.0.0/widgets/swap-widget-api.md, before:

---
id: swap-widget-api
slug: swap-widget/api/v2
title: Swap Widget API V2 Reference
sidebar_label: API Reference
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Swap Widget API V2 Reference

<div className="widget-api">

## Recommended Parameters {#recommended-parameters}

| Prop Name       | Prop Type                              | Default Value                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `jsonRpcUrlMap` | `{ [chainId: number]: string[] }`      | `JSON_RPC_FALLBACK_ENDPOINTS` | Mapping of your JSON-RPC endpoint URLs indexed by chainId, used to provide trade quotes prior to the user connecting a wallet. If none is provided for a chain, the widget will fallback to public JSON-RPC endpoints, which are unreliable and rate-limited. See [JSON-RPC Endpoints](../swap-widget#json-rpc-endpoint). |
| `provider`      | `JsonRpcProvider` or `Eip1193Provider` | `undefined`                   | An [EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) provider. See [Web3 provider](../swap-widget#web3-provider).                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Optional Parameters {#optional-parameters}

| Prop Name                   | Prop Type                                | Default Value           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `convenienceFee`            | `number`                                 | `undefined`             | Optionally, you may charge a convenience fee on top of swaps executed through your web app. The allowed range is 1 to 100 basis points (inclusive of 100) consistent with the Uniswap v3 Periphery contract.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `convenienceFeeRecipient`   | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `undefined`             | The address to receive the convenience fee on each network. Required if `convenienceFee` is provided.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `defaultChainId`            | `number`                                 | `1`                     | You may specify which chainId you want to prompt a user to connect their wallet to. [See a list of all chains supported on widget.](https://github.com/Uniswap/widgets/blob/main/src/constants/chains.ts#L4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `defaultInputTokenAddress`  | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `string` or `'NATIVE'`  | Address of the token to be selected by default in the input field (e.g. USDC) for each network chain ID. If left empty the widget will use the native token of the connected chain as default. This can be explicitly defined by the special string `'NATIVE'`. For convenience you may pass a single string instead of a `chainId` mapping. In this case, the widget will assume that string corresponds to an L1 Ethereum address with `chaindId=1`. Any addresses provided in this parameter must be included in the `tokenList`. |
| `defaultInputAmount`        | `number`                                 | `0`                     | Default amount for the input field (e.g. 1 ETH). This value will respect the decimals of the `defaultInputTokenAddress`. This parameter is valid only if `defaultInputTokenAddress` is also set. This parameter is mutually exclusive with `defaultOutputTokenAmount`, so you may set only one of `defaultInputTokenAmount` and `defaultOutputTokenAmount`.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `defaultOutputTokenAddress` | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `string` or `undefined` | Address of the token to be selected by default in the input field (e.g. USDC) for each network chain ID. None if left empty. Any addresses provided in this parameter must be included in the `tokenList`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `defaultOutputAmount`       | `number`                                 | `0`                     | Default amount for the input field (e.g. 100 USDC). This value will respect the decimals of the `defaultOutputTokenAddress`. This parameter is mutually exclusive with `defaultInputTokenAmount`, so you may set only one `of defaultInputTokenAmount and` `defaultOutputTokenAmount`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `hideConnectionUI`          | `boolean`                                | `false`                 | Hide the widget's built-in wallet connection UI, including the connected account chip & 'Connect wallet to swap' button.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `locale`                    | `SupportedLocale`                        | `en-US`                 | Specifies an explicit locale to use for the widget interface. This can be set to one of the values exported by the library in [`SUPPORTED_LOCALES`](https://github.com/Uniswap/widgets/blob/main/src/constants/locales.ts).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `onConnectWalletClick`      | `() => void` or `() => Promise<boolean>` | `undefined`             | If passed, allows you to add custom behavior when the user clicks on the 'Connect your wallet to swap' button. To manage displaying the widget's built-in wallet connection modal, return a resolved promise with `resolve(true/false)`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `onError`                   | `ErrorHandler`                           | `undefined`             | An error handler which receives any Javascript errors that occur in the widget. This can be used for collecting error metrics.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `theme`                     | `Theme`                                  | `lightTheme`            | Specifies a custom theme (colors, font, and border radii). See [Customizing the Theme](../swap-widget#customizing-theme).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `tokenList`                 | `string`                                 | `TokenInfo[]`           | Specifies the set of tokens that appear by default in the token selector list. Accepts either a URI of a token list as defined by the Token Lists standard, or an inline array of tokens. If none is provided, the Uniswap Labs default token list will be used. See [Customizing the Default Token List](../swap-widget#customizing-default-token-list).                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `width`                     | `number` or `string`                     | `360`                   | Specifies the width of the widget. If specified as a number, this is in pixels; otherwise, it is interpreted as a CSS `<length>` data type. Recommended width is 360px. Minimum width is 300px. See [Customizing the Width](../swap-widget#customizing-width).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Subscribing to Events

During the lifecycle of the swap widget, most of the events you will need are available on the web3 provider. For example, the below snippet shows how to listen for events when the wallet account changes or a new wallet connects. You can see more event examples in the [MetaMask](https://docs.metamask.io/guide/ethereum-provider.html) docs.

```js
// Subscribe to messages
interface ProviderMessage {
  type: string;
  data: unknown;
}

ethereum.on(
  'message',
  handler: (message: ProviderMessage) => void
);
```

</div>

:::note Questions?
Join the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/597638925346930701/941447445844463676) to ask questions and get support from the Uniswap community.
:::

Commit message:

docs: [widgets] add routerUrl param (#424)
* docs: [widgets] add routerUrl param

* formatting

* add note about more optimal routes using API

SDK_versioned_docs/version-3.0.0/widgets/swap-widget-api.md, after:

---
id: swap-widget-api
slug: swap-widget/api/v2
title: Swap Widget API V2 Reference
sidebar_label: API Reference
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Swap Widget API V2 Reference

<div className="widget-api">

## Recommended Parameters {#recommended-parameters}

| Prop Name       | Prop Type                              | Default Value                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `jsonRpcUrlMap` | `{ [chainId: number]: string[] }`      | `JSON_RPC_FALLBACK_ENDPOINTS` | Mapping of your JSON-RPC endpoint URLs indexed by chainId, used to provide trade quotes prior to the user connecting a wallet. If none is provided for a chain, the widget will fallback to public JSON-RPC endpoints, which are unreliable and rate-limited. See [JSON-RPC Endpoints](../swap-widget#json-rpc-endpoint). |
| `provider`      | `JsonRpcProvider` or `Eip1193Provider` | `undefined`                   | An [EIP-1193](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1193) provider. See [Web3 provider](../swap-widget#web3-provider).                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Optional Parameters {#optional-parameters}

| Prop Name                   | Prop Type                                | Default Value           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `convenienceFee`            | `number`                                 | `undefined`             | Optionally, you may charge a convenience fee on top of swaps executed through your web app. The allowed range is 1 to 100 basis points (inclusive of 100) consistent with the Uniswap v3 Periphery contract.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `convenienceFeeRecipient`   | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `undefined`             | The address to receive the convenience fee on each network. Required if `convenienceFee` is provided.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `defaultChainId`            | `number`                                 | `1`                     | You may specify which chainId you want to prompt a user to connect their wallet to. [See a list of all chains supported on widget.](https://github.com/Uniswap/widgets/blob/main/src/constants/chains.ts#L4)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `defaultInputTokenAddress`  | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `string` or `'NATIVE'`  | Address of the token to be selected by default in the input field (e.g. USDC) for each network chain ID. If left empty the widget will use the native token of the connected chain as default. This can be explicitly defined by the special string `'NATIVE'`. For convenience you may pass a single string instead of a `chainId` mapping. In this case, the widget will assume that string corresponds to an L1 Ethereum address with `chaindId=1`. Any addresses provided in this parameter must be included in the `tokenList`. |
| `defaultInputAmount`        | `number`                                 | `0`                     | Default amount for the input field (e.g. 1 ETH). This value will respect the decimals of the `defaultInputTokenAddress`. This parameter is valid only if `defaultInputTokenAddress` is also set. This parameter is mutually exclusive with `defaultOutputTokenAmount`, so you may set only one of `defaultInputTokenAmount` and `defaultOutputTokenAmount`.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `defaultOutputTokenAddress` | `{[chainId: number]: string}`            | `string` or `undefined` | Address of the token to be selected by default in the input field (e.g. USDC) for each network chain ID. None if left empty. Any addresses provided in this parameter must be included in the `tokenList`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `defaultOutputAmount`       | `number`                                 | `0`                     | Default amount for the input field (e.g. 100 USDC). This value will respect the decimals of the `defaultOutputTokenAddress`. This parameter is mutually exclusive with `defaultInputTokenAmount`, so you may set only one `of defaultInputTokenAmount and` `defaultOutputTokenAmount`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `hideConnectionUI`          | `boolean`                                | `false`                 | Hide the widget's built-in wallet connection UI, including the connected account chip & 'Connect wallet to swap' button.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `locale`                    | `SupportedLocale`                        | `en-US`                 | Specifies an explicit locale to use for the widget interface. This can be set to one of the values exported by the library in [`SUPPORTED_LOCALES`](https://github.com/Uniswap/widgets/blob/main/src/constants/locales.ts).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `onConnectWalletClick`      | `() => void` or `() => Promise<boolean>` | `undefined`             | If passed, allows you to add custom behavior when the user clicks on the 'Connect your wallet to swap' button. To manage displaying the widget's built-in wallet connection modal, return a resolved promise with `resolve(true/false)`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `onError`                   | `ErrorHandler`                           | `undefined`             | An error handler which receives any Javascript errors that occur in the widget. This can be used for collecting error metrics.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `routerUrl`                 | `string`                                 | `undefined`             | Optionally provide a base URL to your own hosted instance of the Uniswap Router API. If none is provided, the optimal trade route is computed by running the @uniswap/smart-order-router package locally in the browser; this can take a few seconds to load & is slower. You also may be able to find more optimal routes using the Router API! See more about [deploying the Router API](https://github.com/Uniswap/routing-api#deploying-the-api).                                                                                |
| `theme`                     | `Theme`                                  | `lightTheme`            | Specifies a custom theme (colors, font, and border radii). See [Customizing the Theme](../swap-widget#customizing-theme).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `tokenList`                 | `string`                                 | `TokenInfo[]`           | Specifies the set of tokens that appear by default in the token selector list. Accepts either a URI of a token list as defined by the Token Lists standard, or an inline array of tokens. If none is provided, the Uniswap Labs default token list will be used. See [Customizing the Default Token List](../swap-widget#customizing-default-token-list).                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `width`                     | `number` or `string`                     | `360`                   | Specifies the width of the widget. If specified as a number, this is in pixels; otherwise, it is interpreted as a CSS `<length>` data type. Recommended width is 360px. Minimum width is 300px. See [Customizing the Width](../swap-widget#customizing-width).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

## Subscribing to Events

During the lifecycle of the swap widget, most of the events you will need are available on the web3 provider. For example, the below snippet shows how to listen for events when the wallet account changes or a new wallet connects. You can see more event examples in the [MetaMask](https://docs.metamask.io/guide/ethereum-provider.html) docs.

```js
// Subscribe to messages
interface ProviderMessage {
  type: string;
  data: unknown;
}

ethereum.on(
  'message',
  handler: (message: ProviderMessage) => void
);
```

</div>

:::note Questions?
Join the [Discord channel](https://discord.com/channels/597638925346930701/941447445844463676) to ask questions and get support from the Uniswap community.
:::
