versioned_docs/version-V1/guides/rentals/overview.md, before:

---
id: rental-overview
title: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
---

DEGEN NFT Rentals has yet to launch for Nifty Smashers, and the information below is subject to change at any time.

In order to rent a DEGEN, you'll need NFTL in your crypto wallet (NFTL can easily be swapped on [SushiSwap](https://sushi.com/)).

There will be a small, up-front rental fee - 50% of this cost will be burned (removed from circulation) and 50% goes to the NFT owner.

The rental fee is determined based on the number of people renting a DEGEN - the rental fee increases as demand increases.

Rental fees will be charged weekly, with daily rental fees kicking in after the first week (equivalent to approximately 5-10% of the original rental cost). The exact rates are still TBD.

Upon confirming your rental, the daily fee is locked at this maximum for the remainder of the rental period. If people ahead of you in the queue cancel their rental, your daily rental fee will decrease based on your queue position (and demand). This is meant to incentivize players to play frequently during their rental period.

Rentals may be cancelled at any time via the renter dashboard.

The rental will continue until it is cancelled by the renter or the renter's crypto wallet does not have a large enough NFTL balance to cover the cost of the rental. If this is the case, the player will be automatically kicked out of the queue and the DEGEN will be available to rent.

All play-and-earn earnings will be split between the DEGEN owner and renter according to the following profit share model - 30% of the in-game earnings go to the DEGEN owner, 70% of the in-game earnings go to the DEGEN renter.

When navigating to the renter dashboard, you will see the current price and multiplier (these are locked upon confirming the rental agreement). Renters can also view NFTL earnings, gameplay stats, and more in the renter dashboard.

Rental prices vary based on each DEGEN's wearables and background. Multipliers will be driven by the market - every DEGEN will cost the same for its initial rental.

Renters will never have to contact or be concerned with who owns their DEGEN - the agreement is executed by the smart contract making renting no-contact and seamless.

Renters can cash out their NFTL to another cryptocurrency using almost any Web3 wallet (Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Wallet Connect, etc.) After cashing out to your wallet, you can send the NFTL to an exchange in order to sell for USDC or another stable coin like USDT.

Commit message:

Several additions to the Rentals Guide
Handful of updates on Rentals

versioned_docs/version-V1/guides/rentals/overview.md, after:

---
id: rental-overview
title: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
---

DEGEN NFT Rentals has yet to launch for Nifty Smashers, and the information below is subject to change at any time.

In order to rent a DEGEN, you'll need NFTL in your crypto wallet (NFTL can easily be swapped on [SushiSwap](https://sushi.com/)).

There will be a small, up-front rental fee, which is determined based on the number of people renting a DEGEN. Rental fees increase as demand increases.

Rental fees will be charged weekly initially, with daily rental fees kicking in after the first week. After the initial week, renters may continue their rental on a daily basis at a 30% discount from the prorated weekly rental price.

Upon confirming your rental, the daily fee is locked at this maximum for the remainder of the rental period. If people ahead of you in the queue cancel their rental, your daily rental fee will decrease based on your queue position (and demand). This is meant to incentivize players to play frequently during their rental period.

The owner or renter can choose to terminate the rental, but the rental continues for the duration of the period initially rented.

The rental will continue until it is cancelled by the renter or the renter's crypto wallet does not have a large enough NFTL balance to cover the cost of the rental. If this is the case, the player will be automatically kicked out of the queue and the DEGEN will be available to rent.

A wallet can only rent a DEGEN 1x weekly (if the wallet wants to rent the same DEGEN subsequently, it must be rented on a daily basis).

All play-and-earn earnings will be split between the DEGEN Owner, Renter (and Sponsor, if applicable).

When navigating to the renter dashboard, you will see the current price and multiplier (these are locked upon confirming the rental agreement). Renters can also view NFTL earnings, gameplay stats, and more in the renter dashboard.

Rental prices vary based on each DEGEN's background. Multipliers will be driven by the market - every DEGEN will cost the same for its initial rental.

Renters will never have to contact or be concerned with who owns their DEGEN - the agreement is executed by the smart contract making renting no-contact and seamless.

Renters can cash out their NFTL to another cryptocurrency using almost any Web3 wallet (Metamask, Coinbase Wallet, Wallet Connect, etc.) After cashing out to your wallet, you can send the NFTL to an exchange in order to sell for USDC or another stable coin like USDT.
