docs/contracts/v4/concepts/10-security.mdx, before:

---
id: security
title: Security
sidebar_position: 10
---

When building on Uniswap v4, security should be a primary consideration. This section covers emergency response resources and security best practices specific to v4 implementations.

## Emergency Response

### SEAL 911 Emergency Hotline

If you encounter a security incident (exploit, vulnerability, or other urgent security matter) while working with Uniswap v4, the SEAL 911 Emergency Hotline provides immediate access to security experts.

**Emergency Contact**: https://t.me/seal_911_bot

SEAL 911 is a community-operated Telegram bot that connects you directly with vetted security responders who can provide immediate assistance during security incidents.

#### How It Works
- Send a message through the bot during a security emergency
- Automatic alert routing to a vetted group of white hat security professionals
- Immediate response from trusted security experts in the space

#### Additional Resources
- [SEAL 911 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/security-alliance/seal-911)
- [Security Alliance Website](https://www.securityalliance.org/seal-911)

:::note
SEAL 911 is a third-party service operated by the Security Alliance. Exercise appropriate judgment when sharing sensitive information during emergency situations.
:::

## v4-Specific Security Considerations

### Hook Security
When developing custom hooks for v4, ensure proper validation and access controls. Malicious or poorly implemented hooks can compromise pool security.

### Flash Accounting
v4's flash accounting system requires careful implementation to prevent exploitation. Always ensure proper settlement of deltas.

### Pool Manager Interactions
Direct interactions with the PoolManager require thorough understanding of the locking mechanism and callback patterns.

## Bug Bounty Program

For non-emergency security issues, report vulnerabilities through Uniswap's official [bug bounty program](https://uniswap.org/bug-bounty/).

## Additional Security Resources

- Review the [v4 Core contracts](../reference/core/) for implementation details
- Follow security best practices outlined in the [Hooks documentation](./04-hooks.mdx)
- Test thoroughly using the provided [test contracts](../reference/core/test/)

Commit message:

fix: audit and bug bounty links (#1056)

docs/contracts/v4/concepts/10-security.mdx, after:

---
id: security
title: Security
sidebar_position: 10
---

When building on Uniswap v4, security should be a primary consideration. This section covers emergency response resources and security best practices specific to v4 implementations.

## Emergency Response

### SEAL 911 Emergency Hotline

If you encounter a security incident (exploit, vulnerability, or other urgent security matter) while working with Uniswap v4, the SEAL 911 Emergency Hotline provides immediate access to security experts.

**Emergency Contact**: https://t.me/seal_911_bot

SEAL 911 is a community-operated Telegram bot that connects you directly with vetted security responders who can provide immediate assistance during security incidents.

#### How It Works
- Send a message through the bot during a security emergency
- Automatic alert routing to a vetted group of white hat security professionals
- Immediate response from trusted security experts in the space

#### Additional Resources
- [SEAL 911 GitHub Repository](https://github.com/security-alliance/seal-911)
- [Security Alliance Website](https://www.securityalliance.org/seal-911)

:::note
SEAL 911 is a third-party service operated by the Security Alliance. Exercise appropriate judgment when sharing sensitive information during emergency situations.
:::

## v4-Specific Security Considerations

### Hook Security
When developing custom hooks for v4, ensure proper validation and access controls. Malicious or poorly implemented hooks can compromise pool security.

### Flash Accounting
v4's flash accounting system requires careful implementation to prevent exploitation. Always ensure proper settlement of deltas.

### Pool Manager Interactions
Direct interactions with the PoolManager require thorough understanding of the locking mechanism and callback patterns.

## Audits

Uniswap's V4 core contracts have undergone a handful of extensive security reviews by multiple providers, with some reviews still ongoing. Below is a list of completed and draft reports. The full list can be found in the respective repositories' [audits directory](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits):

> [Open Zeppelin report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits/OpenZeppelin_audit_core.pdf) from July 17th 2024.

> [Certora draft report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits/DRAFT_Certora_audit_core.pdf) from July 2024.

> [Trail of Bits report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits/TrailOfBits_audit_core.pdf) from September 5th 2024.

> [Spearbit draft report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits/DRAFT_Spearbit_audit_core.pdf) from September 5th 2024.

> [ABDK draft report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/docs/security/audits/DRAFT_ABDK_audit_core.pdf) from September 5th 2024.


Similarly, the V4 periphery contracts have been reviewed by various audit providers, and the full list is inside the periphery repository's [audits directory](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/tree/main/audits): 

> [Open Zeppelin report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/audits/OpenZeppelin_audit_periphery_universal_router.pdf) from September 5th 2024.

> [Spearbit draft report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/audits/DRAFT_Spearbit_audit_periphery.pdf) from September 5th 2024.

> [ABDK draft report](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/audits/DRAFT_ABDK_audit_periphery_universal_router.pdf) from September 5th 2024.

## Bug Bounty Program

In November 2024 Uniswap announced a [$15.5 million dollar bug bounty](https://blog.uniswap.org/v4-bug-bounty) for their V4 contracts. You can view the full [bounty page](https://cantina.xyz/bounties/f9df94db-c7b1-434b-bb06-d1360abdd1be) on Cantina.

## Additional Security Resources

- Review the [v4 Core contracts](../reference/core/) for implementation details
- Follow security best practices outlined in the [Hooks documentation](./04-hooks.mdx)
- Test thoroughly using the provided [test contracts](../reference/core/test/)
