docs/sdk/web3-react/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---
# Web3-React

> **Welcome to Web3-React!**

Web3-React provides abstractions to assist you with connecting to web3 providers and exposes methods to interact with them. It currently supports the following connections:
- Network
- Metamask wallet
- Gnosis safe
- Coinbase wallet
- WalletConnect wallet

To begin, we recommend looking at our [**guide**](./guides/01-setting-up.md) which includes [runnable examples](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/tree/main/web3-react) and walkthroughs of core usages. These guides will help you better understand how to use web3-react and integrate it into your application.

## Installation

Web3-react consists of many packages, each providing different functionalities. The **core** package exposes the methods used to interact with providers, while the others are installed to enable different providers.

To interact with the web3-react we recommend installing though npm:

```bash
npm i --save @web3-react/core
```

or yarn:

```bash
yarn add @web3-react/core
```

## Developer Links

- [**Web3-react Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/web3-react)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uniswap/web3-react/core/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/web3-react/core/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@uniswap/web3-react/core/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@uniswap/web3-react/core@latest)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join%20chat-blue.svg)](https://discord.com/channels/597638925346930701/607978109089611786)

Commit message:

feat: wallet connecting and disconnecting (#546)

docs/sdk/web3-react/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---
# Web3-React

> **Welcome to Web3-React!**

Web3-React provides abstractions to assist you with connecting your dApp to web3 connectors and exposes methods to interact with those connections. It currently supports connecting to the following wallets:
- Network
- Injected wallets (eg MetaMask)
- Gnosis safe
- Coinbase wallet
- WalletConnect wallet

To begin, we recommend looking at our [guides](./guides/01-setting-up.md) which include [runnable examples](https://github.com/Uniswap/examples/tree/main/web3-react) and walkthroughs of core usages. These guides will help you better understand how to use web3-react and integrate it into your application.

## Installation

Web3-react consists of many packages, each providing different functionalities. The [core](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@web3-react/core) package exposes the methods used to interact with web3 connectors, the [types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@web3-react/types) package declares useful types, while the others are installed to enable interactions with different connectors.

To interact with web3-react we recommend installing though npm:

```bash
npm i --save @web3-react/core
```

or yarn:

```bash
yarn add @web3-react/core
```

## Developer Links

- [**Web3-react Repo**](https://github.com/Uniswap/web3-react)

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@web3-react/core/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@web3-react/core/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@web3-react/core/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@web3-react/core@latest)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-join%20chat-blue.svg)](https://discord.com/channels/597638925346930701/607978109089611786)
