docs/sdk/v2/overview.md, before:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---

# The Uniswap V2 SDK

Welcome to the Uniswap Protocol V2 SDK. To begin, we recommend looking at the [**Guides**](./guides/01-quick-start.md) and for deeper reference see the [**V2 SDK Github**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk) repo.


# Uniswap V2 SDK

- [**V2 SDK Github**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk)
- [**SDK Core Github**](https://github.com/Uniswap/sdk-core)
- [**SDK NPM Package**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v2-sdk)

[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/workflows/Unit%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Unit+Tests%22)
[![Lint](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/workflows/Lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3ALint)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uniswap/v2-sdk/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v2-sdk/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@uniswap/v2-sdk/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@uniswap/v2-sdk@latest)

Commit message:

Fix typo and Github -> GitHub case (#890)

docs/sdk/v2/overview.md, after:

---
id: overview
sidebar_position: 1
title: Overview
---

# The Uniswap V2 SDK

Welcome to the Uniswap Protocol V2 SDK. To begin, we recommend looking at the [**Guides**](./guides/01-quick-start.md) and for deeper reference see the [**V2 SDK GitHub**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk) repo.


# Uniswap V2 SDK

- [**V2 SDK GitHub**](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk)
- [**SDK Core GitHub**](https://github.com/Uniswap/sdk-core)
- [**SDK NPM Package**](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v2-sdk)

[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/workflows/Unit%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Unit+Tests%22)
[![Lint](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/workflows/Lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Uniswap/v2-sdk/actions?query=workflow%3ALint)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uniswap/v2-sdk/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@uniswap/v2-sdk/v/latest)
[![npm bundle size (scoped version)](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@uniswap/v2-sdk/latest.svg)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=@uniswap/v2-sdk@latest)
