docs/contracts/v4/quickstart/05-subscriber.mdx, before:

---
title: Subscriber
---

# Context

For developers looking to support custom _liquidity mining_, Subscriber contracts can be used to receive notifications about position modifications or transfers.

# Guide

## 1. Implement the [`ISubscriber`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol) interface

Can also refer to [MockSubscriber](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/test/mocks/MockSubscriber.sol) for an actual implementation example.

```solidity
import {ISubscriber} from "v4-periphery/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol";

contract MySubscriber is ISubscriber {
    uint256 public notifySubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyUnsubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyModifyLiquidityCount;
    uint256 public notifyBurnCount;
    // other implementations...

    function notifySubscribe(uint256, bytes memory) external onlyByPosm {
        notifySubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyUnsubscribe(uint256) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyUnsubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyModifyLiquidity(uint256, int256, BalanceDelta) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyModifyLiquidityCount++;
    }

    function notifyBurn(uint256, address, PositionInfo, uint256, BalanceDelta)
        external
        onlyByPosm
    {
        notifyBurnCount++;
    }
}
```

## 2. A caveat on `unsubscribe()`

There is a variable [`unsubscribeGasLimit`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#unsubscribegaslimit) specifically set at deployment of `PositionManager` to prevent gas griefing on `unsubscribe()` - which could result in the subscriber contract not being notified during `unsubscribe()`. 

If notifying the subscriber contract is not necessary users can still specify a gas limit where `notifyUnsubscribe()` hits `OutOfGas` and reverts yet the unsubscription will still succeed.

From [`_unsubscribe()`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/base/Notifier.sol#L80) on `Notifier`:
```solidity
if (address(_subscriber).code.length > 0) {
    // require that the remaining gas is sufficient to notify the subscriber
    // otherwise, users can select a gas limit where .notifyUnsubscribe hits OutOfGas yet the
    // transaction/unsubscription can still succee
    if (gasleft() < unsubscribeGasLimit) GasLimitTooLow.selector.revertWith();
    try _subscriber.notifyUnsubscribe{gas: unsubscribeGasLimit}(tokenId) {} catch {}
}
```

## 3. Opt-in to a subscriber contract

To opt-in to a subscriber contract, call [`subscribe()`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#subscribe) on `PositionManager`.

```solidity
import {IPositionManager} from "v4-periphery/src/interfaces/IPositionManager.sol";

IPositionManager posm = IPositionManager(<address>);
ISubscriber mySubscriber = ISubscriber(<address>);

bytes memory optionalData = ...;
posm.subscribe(tokenId, mySubscriber, optionalData);
```

Commit message:

Subscriber (#957)
Co-authored-by: saucepoint <98790946+saucepoint@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/contracts/v4/quickstart/05-subscriber.mdx, after:

---
title: Subscriber
---

# Context

For developers looking to support custom _liquidity mining_, Subscriber contracts can be used to receive notifications about position modifications or transfers.

# Guide

## 1. Implement the [`ISubscriber`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol) interface

Can also refer to [MockSubscriber](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/test/mocks/MockSubscriber.sol) for an actual implementation example.

```solidity
import {ISubscriber} from "v4-periphery/src/interfaces/ISubscriber.sol";

contract MySubscriber is ISubscriber {
    uint256 public notifySubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyUnsubscribeCount;
    uint256 public notifyModifyLiquidityCount;
    uint256 public notifyBurnCount;
    // other implementations...

    function notifySubscribe(uint256, bytes memory) external onlyByPosm {
        notifySubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyUnsubscribe(uint256) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyUnsubscribeCount++;
    }

    function notifyModifyLiquidity(uint256, int256, BalanceDelta) external onlyByPosm {
        notifyModifyLiquidityCount++;
    }

    function notifyBurn(uint256, address, PositionInfo, uint256, BalanceDelta)
        external
        onlyByPosm
    {
        notifyBurnCount++;
    }
}
```

## 2. A caveat on `unsubscribe()`

To prevent gas griefing during unsubscription, Uniswap v4 sets a fixed variable [`unsubscribeGasLimit`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#unsubscribegaslimit) when calling a subscriber’s `notifyUnsubscribe()` function.

Without this limit, malicious subscribers could prevent liquidity providers from unsubscribing. If `notifyUnsubscribe()` were to consume too much gas, it would cause the unsubscription transaction to revert, thus leading to a denial-of-service

With the gas limit in place, if the subscriber’s notification fails, the unsubscription will still succeed and only the notification to the subscriber is skipped.

From [`_unsubscribe()`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-periphery/blob/main/src/base/Notifier.sol#L80) on `Notifier`:
```solidity
if (address(_subscriber).code.length > 0) {
    // require that the remaining gas is sufficient to notify the subscriber
    // otherwise, users can select a gas limit where .notifyUnsubscribe hits OutOfGas yet the
    // transaction/unsubscription can still succee
    if (gasleft() < unsubscribeGasLimit) GasLimitTooLow.selector.revertWith();
    try _subscriber.notifyUnsubscribe{gas: unsubscribeGasLimit}(tokenId) {} catch {}
}
```

## 3. Opt-in to a subscriber contract

To opt-in to a subscriber contract, call [`subscribe()`](/contracts/v4/reference/periphery/interfaces/INotifier#subscribe) on `PositionManager`.

```solidity
import {IPositionManager} from "v4-periphery/src/interfaces/IPositionManager.sol";

IPositionManager posm = IPositionManager(<address>);
ISubscriber mySubscriber = ISubscriber(<address>);

bytes memory optionalData = ...;
posm.subscribe(tokenId, mySubscriber, optionalData);
```
